frc: f3-augmented-snapshot (#1169)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FRCs/frc-0108.md

## Incentive Considerations
<!--All FIPs must contain a section that discusses the incentive implications/considerations relative to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for incentive discussion. A discussion on how the proposed change will incentivize reliable and useful storage is required. FIP submissions missing the "Incentive Considerations" section will be rejected. An FIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Incentive Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->

Node users should experience faster F3 bootstrapping time and less network bandwidth usage.

## Product Considerations
<!--All FIPs must contain a section that discusses the product implications/considerations relative to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for product discussion. A discussion on how the proposed change will enable better storage-related goods and services to be developed on Filecoin. FIP submissions missing the "Product Considerations" section will be rejected. An FIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Product Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->

> Nodes starting from a snapshot should not rely on the certificate exchange protocol to catch up with the F3 data because we expect this will get slower over time. A slow F3 catchup time leads to, e.g.
> 
> - delay in the readiness of F3-aware RPC APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start-up without initial F3 data

Nodes starting from a snapshot should not rely on the certificate exchange protocol to catch up with the F3 data because we expect this will get slower over time. One outcome of a slow F3 catchup time is a delay in the readiness of F3-aware RPC APIs.

### CAR format expectations

This change introduces a relatively novel use of the CAR format in that it contains one very large block, much larger than typical blocks found in most CAR containers for use with IPLD data. At the time of this proposal, this block size would be approximately TODO MiB and this will only grow over time. While this is not disallowed by the CAR specification, many CAR processing utilities are built on an assumption of classic IPFS style blocks of more more than approximately 1MiB each. Some CAR tooling may struggle to deal with the new proposed format, although handling CAR data outside of the narrow use-case of snapshort imports on Filecoin nodes is not typical or necessarily recommended.
```

See TODO in there, I don't know what size we're talking about here, do you have a rough guestimate to get us started? If it's too hard we could remove the specific reference but I wanted to provide a ballpark to point out how it's different to the max ~1MiB expectation that a lot of tools expect today. But also be clear that this isn't necessarily a bad thing, just bad expectations in existing software.
